### Experts teaching or teaching to become an expert?

An interesting idea came up in the interview with Nathan Berry on the thoughtbot podcast, both host and guest agree upon the idea that to be accepted as an expert on something, mostly all that is required is to teach that something and people will assume you're an expert on it. And then as a corrolary all
that's really necessary to teach is to be in the process of learning it yourself. How many times have you heard that the best way to learn something is to teach it and how many times have you experienced having a much better grasp on something upon having to explain it to someone
else.

This is something we've all heard before, but if you think about it, this really has some very important consequences for the way we do
education.

### TAs Profs and the guy in the third row
We have this idea of the teacher as someone with vastly more experience than the student, and who comes down from the mountaintop to bestow their wisdom on their students. But for several important reasons the teacher who-until-very-recently was a student can be better. The reason is because of what happens as we learn. Basically if you've been doing something for a really long time, you forget what it's like to _not_ know this. The best teacher is someone who can empathize with the experience of the student and take them from not getting something to getting it. They know what it's like to not know something because until very recently they didn't know it. The most important part of teaching someone is not giving them knowledge but helping them along in the process of achieving mastery. These are very different things. If we think of the teacher as someone who has something and the student as someone who simply doe not yet have that something then it makes sense for the teacher to just be the most knowledgable person. But if we think of the learning process as just that, a process, wherein knowledge is not transferred but students make discoveries and teachers simply help them do this, then you're looking at a very different phenomenon. And in this case you'd much rather have someone who is as close as possible to that spark of discovery and understanding so that they can share it with you.

This is actually a fundamental flaw of higher education as it currently stands. College professors are trained at doing research and at learning difficult things. And yet they are frequently tasked with instructing undergraduates who are _fundamentally different people_ than them. What I mean by this is that an undergraduate who takes an computer science class for instance, is not in all likelihood a fellow traveler who's a little bit behind in his journey. In all likelihood he's not going to stay in the academy and become a computer science professor, doing research on algorithms and science. He's far more likely to go out into the private sector and work as a programmer in some capacity. In some fundamental way the person behind the lecturn can't even really conceive of someone not having a clue of what they're talking about because they're so far removed, so many layers of abstraction away from not knowing these basic things.

Is it any wonder then that the places where teaching truly takes place in the college classroom tends to be with the teaching assistants? In contrast to the professors, teaching assistants are people who were
exactly where you were, pretty recently. In most cases they are first or second-year graduate students or even junior or senior undergraduates.

Think too about the way that classes are typically set up--everyone starts at the same time and finishes at the same time. You're surrounded by people who mostly are at the same point that you are. If we take this idea further, it would seem that the very best teachers are the ones who had to struggle the way we are struggling not twenty years ago back in school, not even two years ago back in undergrad but two weeks ago. Another student who literally had the exact same problem and is just slightly ahead of you in terms of resolving that problem. For this person the magic of just having learned is still present and exciting and the experience of having gotten it is fresh and memorable.

### So what do we do?
This seems to be a great opportunity in education as well as a bit of a challenge; certainly it's difficult in the traditional classroom to achieve something like this--your university classes don't have staggered start times. Ideally what you'd want is some way to divide people by small cohorts and then give them a very pinpointed access to the kinds of difficulties that people directly behind them are having. Sort of like a stack overflow for where the moderators for week 4 in the class are the participants in week 6.

We do see staggered classrooms out there outside of traditional education but there things aren't ideal either. Generally what you have is kind of the opposite issue--we're _all_ bunched in there together and there's no way to sort through things. As a beginner it's intimidating to jump on stack overflow and look for questions--all the low-hanging fruit has been picked already. The internet should be able to help us solve this problem. The world's a big place. Somewhere out there, there's someone who's had the problem that you're having right now, just solved it a week ago and both of you would learn from their sitting down to explain it to you.
